Let's walk through a detailed worked
example in Multinomial Naive Bayes.
So, for this example,
when I put up here the equations for
Naive Bayes, so the probability
of a class is the number of
documents with that class over
the total number of documents.
And the likelihood of
a word given a class,
let's just do simple add 1 smoothing, the
count of the word occurring in that class
divided by the count of all words in
that class, and with add 1 smoothing.
And let's assume that we have four
training documents, 1, 2, 3, 4,
and one test document.
And here are the documents,
they're simplified, obviously, documents.
This document has only three words,
Chinese Beijing Chinese.
And this document has three words,
Chinese Chinese Shanghai, and so on.
And let's say we just have two classes,
Chinese and Japanese.
Our job is to do Asian
news topic classification.
So three of our training documents
are in the class China, and
one of them is in the class Japan.
And our question is what's
the class of this test document?
All right, so let's do some computation.
First thing we're going to
do is compute the priors.
So we need to compute P(c), called the
class China, and P(j) in the class Japan.
So P(c) is how many times does the class
Chinese occur in our training set,
3, out of how
many total classes are there in our trade
documents are there in our training set?
4.
So 3 of the 4 training documents,
so that's 3/4 are about China.
So our prior probability of a document
being in the topic China is 3/4.
How about Japan?
Well, there's only 1 document
in our training set about Japan
out of the 4 documents.
So the probability of Japan is 1/4.
So we've seen how to compute
our prior probabilities here.
Let's move on to the likelihoods.
Let's compute each of these probabilities.
What's the probability of the word
Chinese given the class c?
Chinese given the class j, and so on.
All right, so,
the probability of Chinese is,
how many times does the word Chinese
occur in our training set of
documents that are in the class China,
okay?
So this word Chinese, how many times
does it occur in these three documents?
1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
So we have 5.
We have add one smoothing,
so we're adding 1.
And how many total words
are there in our training set?
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8 that are in our Chinese class.
And then we're going to add the vocabulary
size V, again, we're doing add one
smoothing, so add the vocabulary size V,
and our vocabulary is 6.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
So that's (5+1)/(8+6) = 6/14 = 3/7.
And we'll do the same thing for
the word Tokyo.
Tokyo doesn't occur at all in our
three classes, it has a count of 0.
But we're doing add one smoothing,
so we'll add 1, and
that's the same denominator.
The same number of total words and
vocabulary size in our Chinese class, so
that will be 1/14.
And the same exact thing is true for
the word Japan,
doesn't occur in our training set.
Now let's turn to the class j for Japan.
So now the word Chinese does occur once.
And then we'll do, so it's once,
plus 1 for add one smoothing.
And we'll divide by the count
of the words in this class, and
there's three words in this
meta document of one document.
And then, again,
we add the vocabulary size.
And so, we've got 2/9.
And we can compute the next
two numbers the same way.
So now we have our priors, and
we have our conditional probabilities.
We're ready to decide which class is
more likely for our test document.
So for our test document,
we'll call that document 5,
we need to compute our prior and
our likelihoods.
So our prior is 3/4,
the prior of being Chinese for
document 5 is 3/4,
that's the prior for Chinese, times,
the word Chinese occurs 3 times, 1, 2, 3.
And each one of those gets
the probability of Chinese given 3.
So that's 3/7, 3/7, 3/7.
Then the word Tokyo occurs.
That's got probability 1/14.
Then the word Japan, 1/14, and
we multiply all that together,
we get approximately 0.0003.
Notice that we say that this probability
is proportional to this product
because we are computing the arc
max between these two classes.
We're computing the class which maximizes
the product of the two probabilities.
But the actual probability
has a denominator in it.
It would have to be divided
by P of a document.
And we're just skipping that part.
And so, we're actually not
computing the probability,
we're computing the numerator
of the probability.
But since document 5 has the same P
of document 5 in both the Chinese and
Japanese classes,
we´re just going to not compute that.
So we have a proportional to and
not an equal sign here.
Good, and then, for the probability of
document of class Japanese given document
5, now we have the prior for
document Japanese.
And we multiply that by the probability
of Chinese, given the class Japanese.
So that's 2/9 times 2/9 times 2/9.
And then the probability of Tokyo,
given Japanese, that's another 2/9.
And then Japan,
given Japanese, another 2/9.
And so,
we get a slightly lower probability.
So, in this example, our model would
choose which class for this document?
It would choose Chinese,
because 0.0003 is bigger than 0.0001.
Now we've talked about Naive Bayes, where
we're using each word as a feature and
we're using all of the words.
But in lots of examples of Naive Bayes,
we're going to use richer features than
just words, and we're going to use
specific kinds of words and other things.
So SpamAssassin is a Naive Bayes
classifier for spam detection, and
it looks for things like is
the phrase Generic Viagra mentioned?
Is the phrase Online Pharmacy mentioned?
Are there regular expression for
millions of dollars mentioned?
Is there a phrase impress and
nearby the word girl?
Does the from have a lot of numbers in it?
Is the subject in all caps?
So all sorts of different features
that we can use to combine,
and you can look at the SpamAssassin
website to see a common set of features.
So in summary,
Naive Bayes is actually not that naive.
It's a very fast algorithm.
It has low storage requirements.
It's pretty robust to irrelevant features,
they tend to cancel each other out.
It works well in domains where you have
lots of equally important features.
And this turns out to be a problem for
some other classifiers.
In particular, decision trees, which
have some advantages in numeric domains,
don't work well if lots of
features are equally important.
If the independence assumptions hold,
if the asssumed independence is correct,
then it turns out that Naive Bayes is in
fact the optimal classifier for a problem.
Of course, that's rare that these
independence assumptions are really true,
but if they happen to be true or
close to true, it turns out
Naive Bayes is in fact optimal.
And in general,
Naive Bayes is just a good dependable
baseline for text classification,
although we will see other classifiers
that give much better accuracy.